Let me tell you something most trading
videos won't tell you. Becoming
profitable has very little to do with
finding the perfect strategy. It's not
the indicators and it's not some secret
system. I know that because I spent
almost eight years chasing all of that
myself. But getting good at trading is
all about mastering the three things
most traders never focus on and more
importantly, learning how they work
together. In this video, I'm going to
show you the framework that finally made
trading click for me after almost eight
years. Let's start. Now, here's the
pattern that I see over and over again
and maybe you will recognize it. Someone
decide they want to learn trading. So,
the first thing they start doing is
finding a strategy and they could find
one. It could be anything, a YouTube
video, a course, or a book. And it makes
sense. It looks good on the chart and
they get excited. So, excitement comes
after. They start trading it and for a
while it almost works. And at some
point, it stop working. A losing streak
might come, three, four, five losses in
a row. And suddenly, they're not sure if
the strategy is working. Once they lose,
what happen is they're now looking for a
new strategy. And what happen after is
the cycle repeating itself. After that
new strategy still failing, what's going
to happen is a repeat and that's the
loop. That's the cycle that they repeat.
A strategy, excitement, loss, a new
strategy, and then repeating the same
cycle. Now, I'm not describing someone
else here. I'm describing myself and
most of the traders here. I was stuck in
this loop for a long time moving from
one phase to another in this loop
without making any improvements. Now,
that's what this video is about. Not a
new strategy, but the foundation. The
three things that have to be in place
before any strategy can actually work
and how they connect to each other. So,
let's understand the three pillars of a
profitable trader. The first one is
going to be an edge. Now, all of these
are going to be going over in details
and then the psychology and risk. The
moment you have all of these three you
working together and in the right way,
then nothing can stop you. And this is
what I'm actually trying to teach you in
this video. Part one, edge. Now, here is
something that took me way too long to
see, that every strategy you might think
about. So, let's think about ICT, smart
money concepts, support and resistance,
supply and demand, and also if we think
about the general ways or the big ways
of trading, which are, for example,
continuation trading, reversal, and
range. I mean, any strategy you could be
thinking of is going to be, you know,
one of these. So, all of these, when we
take out the name or the indicator or
the timeframe, what's left is always the
same. Price is at a key level, reacting
off a key level, into a key level, and
reacting off a key level. So, if you
notice here, key level reaction, key
level reaction. Now, we could have some
other key level inside here, inside the
range, but key level, key level, and the
reactions are going to be other key
levels. Before we continue, everything
I've learned over the last 7 years, the
framework, the system, and how to read
the market is stored inside my
community, It's Cool. That includes the
edge model, the same strategy I use to
find those 5:1, 10:1, and even 20:1
reward-to-risk trades live with the
community. If you want to learn my full
system, the link is in the description.
Let's keep going. So, that's it. Price
moving from a key level to another and
from a key level to another. Now, when
we focus on the strategy itself, it's
your method of identifying which level
you're looking at and when to enter that
move. So, that goes into the strategy,
but all of the strategies you could be
thinking of are based on the same thing,
a level to another. So, the question is,
if every trade is just price moving from
a level to another, what do you actually
need before you take it? Three things,
and these are the only three pillars of
a trading system. I mean, every trading
plan you could be thinking of relies on
these three. Now, we could have more
details and more confluences below each
one, but these are the main three. So,
the first one is direction and direction
answer the question of which way is
price most likely to move from where it
is right now. The second one is a key
level. Where is it coming from? Where is
it going to? And these are your
boundaries. So, these two things are
your boundaries and this is the
understanding of the key level. And the
third one is the entry. Where exactly do
you get in? Early enough that the math
works in your favor. And we're going to
be covering the math. We're going to be
covering the reward to risk and the win
rate and everything you need. So, these
are the three pillars of a trading
system. The moment you can define a
direction, a key level, and an entry,
you have a valid trading system. If you
cannot answer all these three before you
enter a trade, then you don't have a
trade. Now, here is one of my big
realizations after years of trading is
that trading is all about finding a high
probability range. And a high
probability range means a zone where
continuation is more likely than a
reversal. The moment you identify this,
then there is a potential trade and the
whole process becomes easier. So, what
is a high probability range? So, this is
for example a high to a low. What we are
finding or what we are coming to a
conclusion out of this is that because
this is a high probability one, it means
we're going to be having a continuation
from and the continuation is going to be
to the downside. So, the moment price
goes back to the range, which is a zone
where continuation is more likely than a
reversal, so I know that price will
continue lower from here. So, the moment
you identify the range, that process is
simply you trying to be in the right
place in the right time and with the
right size. Now, you may ask, what is
the easiest way to identify high
probability range? And my answer is this
formula here. Weakness followed by
strength equal a high probability range.
So, weakness could be in a lot of
different shapes and forms. Strength is
the same as well. Now, the moment we
have the sequence, a W to S or weakness
to strength, that's going to give us a
high probability range. Now, weakness,
one of the ways that we can see it, and
I mean, the easiest way is a fake out or
failing to displace. So, simply we have
price going up and then failing to close
above this, immediately going lower,
that is a weakness. Now, strength on the
other hand is a strong break of
structure. So, this is strength.
Strongly closing above. And whenever we
have a strength, we have a continuation
from that range. So, the moment we have
the sequence of weakness and strength,
then we have a high probability range.
So, for example, we have this price
action range here. Now, we want to find
high probability ranges and then look
for the continuation out of these. So,
for example, if you focus on here, what
we have is a weakness followed by
strength. So, it's this formula right
here. Weakness, strength, that means we
have a high probability range from here
to here, and that's where the
continuation came from. Now, here we
have a weakness followed by strength,
and then we have this high probability
range, and then a continuation from
here. Same thing here. We have a
weakness, strength, and then the
continuation comes off here. So, so if
you decide to open in a short and then
look for this specific formula, the
weakness to strength equal a high
probability range. That means, if I can
see that here, we actually failed to
close below, then we had only one
closure and then going above, then we
have a strength on the opposite side.
So, we have weakness and strength. That
means the range from here all the way up
is going to be a high probability one,
and that means it's going to push price
higher after the retracement, and that's
what happened. Price retreats back into
the range, retracement going higher.
Another one that is the same, weakness
here followed by strength, and this is a
fresh range, but retracement back into
the range and then pushing higher.
Weakness here and then a strength on the
opposite side and then prices coming
back into the range going lower.
Strength, retracement and then
continuation. Weakness and then strength
followed by a continuation after the
retracement. And this will keep
happening every time. So weakness and
then retracement after the strength
continuation, weakness, strength,
continuation and that's the pattern
here. That's the formula. Now a setup is
a single trade idea. An edge is
something different. An edge is a
repeatable statistical advantage across
hundreds of trades and not just one. Now
there is no certainty in trading, so you
don't know if the next trade will be a
winner or a loser. You cannot even know.
What you can know is that if your edge
is real, that over a large enough
sample, the math will pays out. And
there [snorts] is a formula that tells
you if your system has an edge or if
it's going to be profitable. And that
one is expectancy. So if that number is
positive after this formula which has
the win rate and the average win, the
loss rate and the average loss. So what
you can, you know, the conclusion from
this is that in order to become a
profitable trader, what you need is a
high win rate and then a high average
win. In other words, a high reward to
risk ratio. So if the number is positive
again, then you'll make money over time.
If it's negative, it does not matter how
good your entries look even if you're
having sniper entries and you know, you
think you're going to make money, you're
not. You're just going to be losing in
slow motion. So if we do the math here
and we have a 30% win rate and then a
3:2:1 reward to risk, that's going to
give us a positive expectancy. That
means you'll be making money over time.
However, if we have a 40% win rate and a
1:2:1 reward to risk, it's going to be a
negative expectancy and you'll be losing
money no matter how good it looks. Part
two, psychology. So now I'm talking
about psychology but not the way
everyone talks about it because it's
mostly wrong or incomplete in other
words. Now every trading book gives you
the same list, FOMO, over trading,
revenge trading and then in other times
they say impatience, moving stops and
the list goes on and on. So a lot of,
you know, there is discipline as well.
What the book is going to tell you is
that do not do this, be disciplined,
have a plan and stick to it. But that
does not work because you will tell
yourself I'll be more disciplined and
then the next loss or the next trade
that you take you're not disciplined
again and again. Now the thing is all of
these things that you are seeing here
are just symptoms. They are not real
issues. All of these goes back to the
same root and that root is your nervous
system. Your nervous system does not
know the difference between a losing
trade and being chased by something
dangerous. It's the same thing. To your
body financial threat and physical
threat feels the same. So if we go back
to FOMO, it's not a bad habit. It's a
scarcity response. If we look at revenge
trading, it's not a lack of discipline.
It's your ego protecting itself from the
meaning of a loss for example. In every
other part of your life you can explain
away your reactions, you can blame the
situation, the people around you, the
circumstances but in trading you cannot
because the P&L is very clear and it
does not lie. It shows you exactly who
you are when the pressure is on. So what
do you actually do with this, the root
thing? You need to stop trying to fix
each symptom individually because that's
an endless game. You'll be fixing one
and then another will show up tomorrow
so it's not going to work. What you need
to do is fix the root and 90% of the
issues start dissolving on their own.
Now one more thing on this and it's very
important. A lot of people misunderstand
this and this is something you'll learn
after years of trading. Now, looking at
this table here, we have a loss a win
followed process and broke rules. A
losing trade that you executed
perfectly. Right entry, right size, and
everything is right. You followed your
plan, but it's a loser. That's a good
trade. Now, a trade you took and it was
a loss when you broke your rules, that's
a bad trade. And I would say this is not
too dangerous as the other one that we
going to be discussing here. Now, a
trade that was a win when you followed
your process, that's a trade you should
be proud of. But the dangerous part here
is this one here. A winner that you got
when you were breaking your rules. That
is the most dangerous trade. Because now
your brain has evidence that breaking
the rules works. And that's a problem, a
big problem actually, that it will show
up later in maybe a worst timing. So,
you want to focus on what is above,
following the process regardless of the
outcome. Part three, risk. Now, we know
that every trade you take is a
probability event. You don't know if
it's going to be a winner or a loser.
Actually, no one does. What you do know,
and what you can actually control
completely, is how much. How much you
expose to that uncertainty. That is the
only variable you can fully control in
trading. There There is nothing that you
can control, only the risk. Only the
question of how much that you can
actually control. Now, let's talk about
asymmetry. And we have this table that
has a win rate on the bottom here and to
the left we have the reward-to-risk.
High and a low, a low win rate and a
high win rate. Now, a lot of people
start here, which is not a good zone to
be on, and most likely you'll be a loser
here having a low win rate and a low
reward-to-risk. That means you're
risking $100, for example, and you're
only making $50. Much less than what
you're risking. And then the win rate is
lower. That means even out of 10 times,
you're losing six times. So, that is a
bad position to be on and a lot of
people are going to be losing. Now, a
good trader would be having a higher
reward to risk and a lower rate that
could still work, but it's going to have
a bit more pressure here because the win
rate is lower. Also, a good trader could
be having a high win rate and a lower
reward to risk, but the position that
you want to be on and the best one is
going to happen after a lot of years in
trading and the moment that you can be
precise and more picky with your setups,
it's going to be right here. This is the
zone where it should be the goal to your
trading journey. And here where you're
going to be feeling like trading is
going to be more like a business. You're
becoming more as a professional trader.
And it is when you have a high reward to
risk and a high win rate.
This is a simple chart showing the
relationship between the win rate and
the reward to risk and what it needs to
be a break even trader. So, for example,
if you have a one to one reward to risk,
you need a 50% win rate in order to
become a break even. And below that,
risking two to one, three to one, four
to one, you're going to be making money.
On the other hand, if you do less than
that, you'll be losing money. So, this
is something very important to be aware
of in order to know based on your
numbers, the reward to risk that you're
having and the win rate, how much you
need to stay break even and how much you
need to make money. Now, here's the
drawdown math that maybe a lot of people
don't know about and they never thought
about. So, we're having here loss and
then the recovery needed. So, the moment
you lose something, a specific number,
how much you need in order to recover
and go back to break even. If you lose
25% of your account, you will need 33%
to go back to break even. Now, this is a
bit annoying, but at this point it's
fine. It's not a big deal. If you lose
50% you need 100%
to make it back to go back to break
even. You know, that's a different
situation here. If you lose 75% you need
300% to make it back. Three times your
remaining capital. And I guess for most
traders that account is essentially
over. That's where most people just
quit. So, what this teaches us is that a
good strategy is not only about
maximizing the returns. It's not just
about making more money. But the main
goal and what's more important, and this
is what's going to make you survive in
the long term, is protecting the base
that your returns can compound from. So,
I'm going to be starting small and then
I'll protect the base because that's
where I want to start from. If I go
below that it's going to be much harder
to make it up. Now, one important thing
is that an edge only works if you're
still trading when the statistics play
out. So, I cannot just take 10 trades
and then come to a conclusion that I
have an edge. No, it needs to be across
a big number. So, let's look at a
comparison here between a healthy curve
and an healthy curve. So, a healthy
curve, if you notice, we've taken a lot
of trades. That's the first thing. There
are a lot of trades and we don't see
sharp moves to the downside and to the
upside. So, we're not making money
quickly and we're not losing money
quickly. We're having a healthy
climbing. It's like stairs, you know,
going up and going down slowly, but
overall we're going up. We're risking
the same thing. Sometime we lose half of
what we're making and then making double
what we're risking and we go up slowly,
slowly, slowly. Now, an unhealthy curve
could be looking like this. We're
staying near the first amount that we
deposited and then we had a strong push
to the upside, another spike to the
upside, and then suddenly we went back
to zero. So, that means we're not
risking the same amount every time and
then we're not having stop losses. That
is very unhealthy. How could you lose
all your money from a single trade?
Another one could be like this where we
have First of all, this looks like, you
know, we're looking at 10 days or, you
know, 20 days, but here we're looking at
6 months and a year because here it's
more smooth. Here it's not smooth. So,
we have sharp moves to the upside and
downside and it's more visible here
because the time is not as big and as
long as this one here. So, the
realization and that's what I want you
to take from this video is that edge,
psychology, and risk, most people treat
these as three separate topics. It's
like we have a course on strategy,
another course on a mindset, and then a
course on risk management. So, they're
taught differently when in reality they
need to be working with each other. So,
when we talk about an edge, what it does
is that it tells you what trade to take.
And then the psychology decides whether
you actually take it and whether you
exit correctly. And then the risk
determines whether you survive long
enough to see the edge work. These
three, the moment you have them, the
moment you understand them, and the
moment you apply them because
understanding is not everything. It's
about applying. It's about execution.
The moment you apply these into your
trading system, then that's the end. So,
that's it for today's video. If you have
any questions, leave them in the
comments. Make sure to check out It's
Cool, my community, and if you want to
learn my trading strategy and trade with
me. That's it and I will see you in the
next one.